PLANNING By planning well, you get the most out of your kitchen.
Here are some simple things to keep in mind.
You must be able to move easily from the cooking zone
-to the fridge and the sink. This is called the working triangle.
The shape of the kitchen is determined by the shape of the room,
but that does not mean that your new kitchen must have the same shape.
Some options:
A kitchen in one line is good for small kitchens, but not for larger rooms.
You can add an island. That not only gives you more storage space,
but can also serve as a serving area, as a nice place to meet or as a room divider.
An L-shaped kitchen provides a good working triangle
-and offers a lot of storage space.
A U-shaped kitchen gives you loads of storage and worktop space.
But you do need a large space for it.
A parallel kitchen offers you double work zones on opposite walls.
You don't need much space for it and it works well with a door at the end.
With space on both sides of the hob you can always go somewhere with your hot pans.
If you have too little space, focus on the space between the sink and the hob.
There must be enough space in a parallel kitchen so that two people can work there.
You need a distance of 120 cm between kitchen doors facing each other.
Make sure that the cabinets do not obstruct the overview of the countertops.
Follow the manufacturer's recommendations
-to determine the height of the extractor hood.
If you mount your oven at eye level, you don't have to bend down as much and little children can't touch it.
And with worktop space next to the oven, you always have a place for those hot baking trays.
Store your kitchen utensils, pots and pans close to the hob so that you always have them with you.
You better place your glasses, cutlery and crockery close to the dishwasher.
-to easily load and unload it.
With a fitting between the cabinet and the wall
-make sure that the door can be opened completely.
This is especially important when you use pull-out wire baskets.
You shouldn't do this: If you place the oven or the dishwasher in a corner-
-You can no longer open the adjacent drawers and cupboard doors.
Putting a sink against the wall disrupts your workflow.
If you install the oven against a wall, the wall may be damaged by heat.
With drawers in a corner, you can no longer open the adjacent cupboard,
and they may even damage the door or handle.
Much to think about?
The online kitchen planner helps you on your way, and when you place your order,
a kitchen expert will look at your design together with you,
so you don't just have a kitchen that looks great,
but especially one that also works very well.